P8105_HW1_cm3936
================
Carolyn Martinez
2024-09-16

``` r
library(ggplot2)
library(tibble)
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching core tidyverse packages ──────────────────────── tidyverse 2.0.0 ──
    ## ✔ dplyr     1.1.4     ✔ readr     2.1.5
    ## ✔ forcats   1.0.0     ✔ stringr   1.5.1
    ## ✔ lubridate 1.9.3     ✔ tidyr     1.3.1
    ## ✔ purrr     1.0.2     
    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()
    ## ℹ Use the conflicted package (<http://conflicted.r-lib.org/>) to force all conflicts to become errors

``` r
set.seed(123)
```

Problem 0.1 - Done

Problem 0.2 - Done

**Problem 1**

***Description of “penguins” dataset:***

``` r
penguins_data=data("penguins", package = "palmerpenguins")
```

This data set has 344 observations and 8 variables which include the
species of penguin, the island, length of the bill (in mm), depth of the
bill (in mm), length of the flipper (in mm), body mass (in grams), sex,
and year.

The the data set has 344 rows and 8 columns.

The mean flipper length is 200.92 millimeters.

**Making the scatter plot**

``` r
set.seed(123)

my_plot=ggplot(penguins, aes(x = bill_length_mm, y = flipper_length_mm, color=species)) + geom_point()
print(my_plot)
```

    ## Warning: Removed 2 rows containing missing values or values outside the scale range
    ## (`geom_point()`).

![](p8105_hw1_cm3936_files/figure-gfm/flippervbill_scatter-1.png)<!-- -->

``` r
ggsave(filename="flippervbill.png", plot=my_plot)
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image

    ## Warning: Removed 2 rows containing missing values or values outside the scale range
    ## (`geom_point()`).

**Problem 2** The code chunk below creates the requested data frame
with: - random sample of size 10 from a standard Normal distribution -
logical vector indicating whether elements of the sample are greater
than 0 - character vector of length 10 - factor vector of length 10,
with 3 different factor “levels”

``` r
homework_df = tibble (
  norm_sample = rnorm(10),
  norm_sample_pos = norm_sample > 0,
  vec_char = length(10),
  vec_factor = factor(rep(c("level1", "level2", "level3"), length.out =10))
  
)
```

**Taking the mean of the variables**

The mean of all the variables are as follows:

- mean of vec_char is 1

- mean of vec_factor is NA

- mean of norm_sample is 0.0746256

- mean of norm_sample_pos is 0.5

I notice that the mean of the factor variable is not being calculated
because it is not “numeric or logical”. The other variables do produce a
mean.

``` r
as.numeric(pull(homework_df,vec_char))
as.numeric(pull(homework_df,vec_factor))
as.numeric(pull(homework_df,norm_sample))
as.numeric(pull(homework_df,norm_sample_pos))
```

**Applying as.numeric function**

When the `as.numeric` function is applied to the different variables I
noticed that for vec_char all the values are the same (1), this is
because all the values in the data frame are 1 due to the fact that I
did not specify what the contents of it should be only that it be 10
items long.

For vec_factor the values are 1, 2 or 3, this is because it only has
three levels as established at the creation.

In the norm_sample all the numbers are numeric, this is because the
numbers were derived from a random sample.

In the norm_sample_pos variable the value is either 1 or 0, this i
because the response to the variable is TRUE or FALSE, it is a binary
variable therefore the only two numeric options are 0 or 1.

This explains the values seen in the mean, it seems that when the mean
is calculated, the variables are forcefully interpreted as numeric.
